# Classification-of-Attention-Deficiency
MSCS Machine Learning project
EEG classification using Neural Network – An Application of Machine
Learning in the Classification of attention deficiency, to measure the effect
of ChakraMarmaKosha Meditation-II
Stress reduces attention span and is a common problem that impacts students’ academic performance as well as their self-efficacy in handling challenging situations. Meditation techniques have been proven to help manage stress levels. In the previous research, the author used Heart Coherence as the metric to show the impact of ChakraMarmaKosha Meditation (CM), a meditation on human energy centers, on reducing stress levels. In this research, a new version of CM-II, a guided psychotherapy and cognitive therapy meditation is being studied to analyze its impact on reducing attention deficiency among students. This study uses Electroencephalography (EEG) data as a metric to analyze electrical activities of the brain that contribute to attention deficiency. We use a neural network as a machine learning (ML) classifying algorithm to analyze the EEG data to measure the impact of CM-II on students’ attention deficiency.
The goal of this study is to 1) use neural network classification ML algorithm to detect attention deficiency by using EEG dataset, and 2) analyze the impact of CM-II on individuals with attention deficiency. For goal 1, we used Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP), KNN, SVM, and other classifiers on bandwidths of α,β,δ,θ bands obtained from 19 channels of raw EEG dataset. The algorithm produces an accuracy of 93%. Given the accuracy could be improved, in the next phase of this research, we will run the study on live EEG data and will improve the model for higher accuracy. For goal 2, we will analyze the impact of CM-II on participants’ attention spans. 

In the next phase, the data collection and running of the experiment phase, the study will continue to improve the model’s accuracy and stability. Then, an experiment will be conducted on 10-15 participants to analyze their live EEG scans to measure their attention deficiency as well as its improvement after CM-II meditation

Even more, in phase II, we would adopt other metrics such as Heart Rate Variability (HRV) and Heart Coherence (HC), which could be measured by smart technology to device a user-friendly technology in the measurement of attention deficiency to observe the effect of CM II meditation on the human state of mind. Additionally, we would also apply a CT test or self-efficacy test to measure the impact of attention before and after the user is engaged in meditation. The result is expected to prove the hypothesis that CM-II meditation is expected to improve the level of attention in students.
